scrape: Add start timestamp synthesis for cumulative metrics in the scrape path. (#18279)
prometheus/prometheus: docs/feature_flags.md

> * ST for native histograms and NHCBs are not yet implemented (see [#18315](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/issues/18315)).
> * PromQL use of ST is out of scope of this feature.

## Start timestamp (ST) synthesis

`--enable-feature=st-synthesis`

> Enables the synthesis of start timestamps (ST) for cumulative metrics (Counters, Classic Histograms, and Native Histograms)

Reviewer: Should the word "experimental" appear here?

> * ST for native histograms and NHCBs are not yet implemented (see [#18315](https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/issues/18315)).
> * PromQL use of ST is out of scope of this feature.

## Start timestamp (ST) synthesis

`--enable-feature=st-synthesis`

Enables the synthesis of start timestamps (ST) for cumulative metrics (Counters, Classic Histograms, Native Histograms, and Summaries) when they are not provided by the source. Similar to [the official OpenTelemetry metricstarttimeprocessor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/metricstarttimeprocessor#strategy-subtract-initial-point), it tracks previous values to detect resets and subtracts the initial reference point to synthesize a zero-based timeline from the first sample.

> NOTE:
> * Synthesis is currently only implemented on scrape (not yet RW or Otel receive).
> * This feature does not work with out-of-order samples.

> > * This leads to counter values being different than the source. The first point is dropped and its timestamp is used as the start timestamp for all subsequent points. All subsequent points are normalized against that dropped point (i.e. subtracted by it). Rates will still return accurate values but raw values of counters will not match the source.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> NOTE:
>  * Synthesis yields accurate Start Timestamp while maintaining accurate counter rates. However, the raw counter values will be different that what's scraped. This is because the first point is dropped and its timestamp is used as the start timestamp for all subsequent points. All subsequent points are normalized against that dropped point (i.e. subtracted by it). Effectively, synthesis create new counter streams with the known start timestamp from the original data.
> * Synthesis works only with scraped data (RW and Otel receiver are not implemented).
> * Synthesis does not work with out-of-order samples (controlled via `tsdb. out_of_order_time_window` configuration setting).
```

> >  * Synthesis yields accurate Start Timestamp while maintaining accurate counter rates. However, the raw counter values will be different that what's scraped. This is because the first point is dropped and its timestamp is used as the start timestamp for all subsequent points. All subsequent points are normalized against that dropped point (i.e. subtracted by it). Effectively, synthesis create new counter streams with the known start timestamp from the original data.

Reviewer 3: Let's make "first sample is dropped" bit a separate point as well and also say that in case we only managed a single scrape, this means no points.

Author: Done.

Enables the use of start timestamps (ST) in PromQL functions such as `rate()`, `irate()`, and `increase()`. This feature doesn't currently work with extended range selectors (`promql-extended-range-selectors`). 

## Start timestamp (ST) synthesis

`--enable-feature=st-synthesis`

> Enables the synthesis of start timestamps (ST) for cumulative metrics (Counters, Classic Histograms, Native Histograms, and Summaries) when they are not provided by the source. Similar to [the official OpenTelemetry metricstarttimeprocessor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/metricstarttimeprocessor#strategy-subtract-initial-point), it tracks previous values to detect resets and subtracts the initial reference point to synthesize a zero-based timeline from the first sample.

Reviewer 3: When this is enabled we generate ST, but it's not going to be stored without turning on either `created-timestamp-zero-ingestion` or `st-storage` . Which one would you recommend? There needs to be some test to check that this feature works correctly together with these features - I think some simple smoke test would be enough - as we do test those features alone.

Author: `st_storage` is the right one - added a test to make sure this feature plays along well with that one as well.

> Enables the synthesis of start timestamps (ST) for cumulative metrics (Counters, Classic Histograms, Native Histograms, and Summaries) when they are not provided by the source. Similar to [the official OpenTelemetry metricstarttimeprocessor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/metricstarttimeprocessor#strategy-subtract-initial-point), it tracks previous values to detect resets and subtracts the initial reference point to synthesize a zero-based timeline from the first sample.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enables the synthesis of start timestamps (ST) for cumulative metrics (Counters, Classic Histograms, Native Histograms) when they are not provided by the source. Similar to [the official OpenTelemetry metricstarttimeprocessor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/metricstarttimeprocessor#strategy-subtract-initial-point), it tracks previous values to detect resets and subtracts the initial reference point to synthesize a zero-based timeline from the first sample.
```
